# Stegos Blockchain

This source tree constitutes the public Stegos blockchain source repository from https://github.com/stegos/stegos.

We intend to do our work transparently and openly in full public view to this repository.

We assert an MIT license over this source aggregation; see https://github.com/stegos/stegos/blob/dev/LICENSE.

## What is Stegos?

Stegos is a completely private, confidential, scalable and environment-friendly cryptocurrency building and improving upon the know-how of other privacy coins. Stegos can be used to send payments with complete confidentiality.

Transactions in Stegos are unlinkable, untraceable and confidential. 

Stegos makes it impossible to identify recipients of transaction because all coins in transactions are directed to a new and unique addresses. Stegos makes it impossible to trace history of its coins making them fully fungible because many individual transactions are joined together in secure and privacy-preserving way to form a super-transaction before submitting it to the validators. 

All amounts in Stegos, except transaction fees and validators' stakes, are always cloaked using cryptographic commitments and zero-knowledge proofs.

Stegos is a scalable blockchain. Many projects today are claiming that they will be able to process a million transactions per second but none of them explaining what they are going to do with the data generated by this transactions. 

Spent coins in Stegos can be safely removed from the blockchain using cryptographic pruning, thus allowing true scalability, without enormous investments in storage. We are aiming to making it possible to run our blockchain software even on smartphones.

The compactness of Stegos blockchain allows us to use transactional sharding model, where each group of validators keeps the total blockchain state but verifying only a subset of incoming transactions and uses cross-shard atomic commit protocol to eliminate double-spending. We don't need (at least in the nearest future) to employ more complex state sharding model, which requires partitioning of blockchain data between multiple shards. Our goal is, upon reaching a stable transaction processing at VISA/Mastercard's speeds, go beyond hundreds of thousand transactions per second.

Stegos is environment-friendly. Instead of forcing blockchain users to consume megawatts of elecricity for mining blocks, Stegos is using Proof-of-Stake consensus protocol, building on advancements in distributed systems theory and cryptography. Each new block in Stegos must be validated by a group of validators which must stake their funds in the escrow. If any validator will be found cheating or misbehaving by honest validators then its stake will be slashed and went to the Jackpot. The more funds a validator put into the escrow, the more chances it has to become a leader of the consensus in each epoch. The leader takes all block fees sans the part of it the must go into the Jackpot.

The Jackpot is an unique feature of Stegos. A fraction of the fees from each block and all slashed stakes of valditors caught cheating go to the Jackpot. Each few thousand blocks, validators run cryptographic lottery based on verifiable distributed randomness, and transfer the contents of the Jackpot to the lottery winner. The longer a validator keeps it stake and participates in consensus, the higher probability it has to win the Jackpot lottery.

## Project Status

We are in the very early days of the development. We are aiming to build our blockchain iteratively, using two-week cycles (spints). At the end of each sprint we will deliver something working and testable.

Issue tracker is at https://github.com/stegos/stegos/issues.
Project boards is at https://github.com/stegos/stegos/projects.

As our code, our issue tracker and project boards are completely open. We have nothing to hide from the public view. 

## How To Contribute

Even one word corrections are welcome! Our objective is to encourage you to get interested in Stegos and contribute in any way possible.

Please see https://github.com/stegos/stegos/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md for more information on contributing.


Copyright (c) 2108 Stegos AG